# Accelerating 3D Gaussian Splatting Rendering through Level-of-Detail Structures

## Abstract
The 3D Gaussian Splatting method for 3D environment reconstruction from images brought significant advancements to photorealistic novel-view synthesis. It combines the advantages of primitive-based rendering with a differentiable renderer, thus obtaining state-of-the-art image quality and surpassing neural methods for scene representation in optimization and rendering speed. This is a significant step towards bringing these methods to real-time consumer applications, however, 3DGS still requires significant computing power which is not available in consumer devices. In this project, I will present a method for accelerating 3DGS rendering through a hierarchical Level of Detail structure that combines a regular octree subdivision with feature-based primitive clustering to obtain lower-detail representations. Also, I will present a level selection solution to maintain the desired detail granularity across the scene by computing a dynamic cut through the scene tree representation. This method achieves a reduction in the frame time between 14% and 33% by reducing the number of primitives in the scene to around 50%, a reduction which maintains the image quality above 31 dB PSNR compared to the original reconstruction.

## Overview
This project constitutes my master's thesis for the program Master's in Innovation and Research in Informatics, Computer Graphics, and Virtual Reality specialization at Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya. It was developed during a research stay at the National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, under the supervision of prof. Akihiro Sugimoto.

The main purpose of the project was to develop a method to accelerate the rendering of 3D Gaussian Splatting models on lower-powered hardware. The main point is that the user does not have access to the initial training data and camera poses, and neither has access to hardware powerful enough to fine-tune LoDs. This is why, this method only takes as input the pretrained model and generates the LoDs using only the information in the scene at load time. Obviously, the performance of this is significantly worse than training-based methods, but the scope was not to chase increasing image quality metrics, but to investigate potential improvements for consumer applications, where hardware might be limited.

A Complete description of the development process, methodology and results can be found in the [complete thesis](http://hdl.handle.net/2117/420313), which is published on the university library website.

Lastly, this project is mainly based on the reference implementation of the [3D Gaussian Splatting method](https://github.com/graphdeco-inria/gaussian-splatting) and the [Hierarchical 3D Gaussian Representation](https://github.com/graphdeco-inria/hierarchical-3d-gaussians) for figuring out the maths behind the gaussian merging. These sources and many others are of course properly cited in the published thesis.
